.\" Manpage for ttyx_.
.\" add issues at https://github.com/gwelr/ttyx_ to correct errors or typos.
.TH TTYX 1 "2026-04-17" "1.1.1" "ttyx Commands"
.SH NAME
\fBttyx\fP \- Tiling GTK3 terminal emulator for GNOME (forked from Tilix)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ttyx
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBttyx\fP is an advanced GTK3 tiling terminal emulator designed to adhere to GNOME Human Interface Guidelines, forked from Tilix.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBttyx\fP application accepts the following command line parameters:
.TP
.B \-h \-\-help
Show help options.
.TP
.B \-v \-\-version
Show the version of ttyx_ as well as the versions of dependent components.
.TP
.B \-w \-\-working-directory=DIRECTORY
Set the working directory of the terminal.
.TP
.B \-p \-\-profile=PROFILE_NAME
Set the starting profile using the name of one of the existing profiles. If it matches none of those, the default profile will be used.
.TP
.B \-t \-\-title=TITLE
Set the title of the new terminal.
.TP
.B \-s \-\-session=SESSION_NAME
Specify a previously saved session to re-load the layout and layout options from. This will not restore the terminal to where it was left off, rather new terminals are created.
.TP
.B \-a \-\-action=ACTION_NAME
Perform one of the following actions in the current ttyx instance:
.IP
.B session-add-right
Add a new terminal rightwards of the current one.
.IP
.B session-add-down
Add a new terminal below the current terminal.
.IP
.B app-new-session
Create a new ttyx session within the current window.
.IP
.B app-new-window
Create a new ttyx window.
.TP
.B \-e \-\-command=COMMAND
Execute all text after this parameter as a command, thus this parameter must be the last parameter.
.TP
.B \-\-maximize
Maximize the terminal window.
.TP
.B \-\-minimize
Minimize the terminal window.
.TP
.B \-\-full\-screen
Full-screen the terminal window.
.TP
.B \-\-focus\-window
Focus the existing window.
.TP
.B \-\-window\-style=WINDOW_STYLE
Override the preferred window style, the following styles are supported:
.IP
.B normal
Normal window look.
.IP
.B disable-csd
Do not show client side decorations.
.IP
.B disable-csd-hide-toolbar
Do not show client side decorations and toolbar.
.IP
.B borderless
Do not show window borders.
.TP
.B \-\-new\-process
Start an additional ttyx instance as a new process. By default and as per GTK+ version 3 guidelines, ttyx maintains a single process that all windows belong to. This option forces ttyx to start as a separate process. This is not recommended and only intended for debugging purposes. Its use will prevent different ttyx windows from communicating with each other.
.TP
.B \-\-geometry=GEOMETRY
Set the window size; for example: 80x24, or 80x24+200+200 (COLSxROWS+X+Y).
.TP
.B \-q \-\-quake
Open a window in Quake mode or toggle existing Quake mode window visibility.
.TP
.B \-\-preferences
Show the ttyx preferences dialog directly.
.TP
.B \-\-display=DISPLAY
Use the specified X display.
.SH SEE ALSO
None
.SH BUGS
See bugs at https://github.com/gwelr/ttyx_/issues
.SH AUTHOR
gwelr and other contributors. Forked from Tilix by Gerald Nunn.
